Application Programming Interface or API returns data in response to a request made by a client. An API is essentially an access point or endpoint that allows you to access a server’s database.


 JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation and it represents data in JavaScript Object. JavaScript objects are stored as key/value pairs. That data can then be used to do essentially all the CRUD functionality of Creating, Reading, Updating, and Deleting within web applications. 


AJAX stands for “Asynchronous JavaScript and XML“.

AJAX provides a way to retrieve content from a database and display it without having to refresh the entire page. AJAX or also known as Asynchronous JavaScript and XML is a crucial part of a single page application.

AJAX is a technology for asynchronous execution of HTTP requests from client-side JavaScript code. JavaScript front-end apps use AJAX calls to access the back-end services and APIs and consume data from the Web server over the HTTP protocol.

AJAX technology is used to consume RESTful APIs from the back-end server.

The request that waits for the response from the server after requesting to proceed with the script execution’s next part is called a synchronous request.
An asynchronous request in AJAX moves forward with the next line of script execution without waiting for the web server after a request. 


Since AJAX request calls are in plain format, this may result in insecure access to the database.
Anyone can view the data retrieved on a web page made using AJAX as the retrieved data is stored on the client browser.

XMLHttpRequest is an API with various properties and methods that are used by several scripting language
XMLHttpRequest supports various formats for transferring data, including JSON, XML, plain text, and binary content. With XMLHttpRequest, you can update different parts of a webpage without requiring reloading of the page.

REST stands for “Representational State Transfer“. 

We interact with APIs through a set of URLs. Each URL defines a resource that we request or take action on. REpresentational State Transfer or REST is essentially an architectural design pattern to structure URLs.

It is an architectural concept and industry standard about how to build Web services.
RESTful services typically implement the CRUD operations (create, read, update, delete) over а certain data collection.
The HTTP methods GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE are used to retrieve, create, replace, modify and delete data.

 These services are lightweight, provide maintainability, scalability, support communication among multiple applications that are developed using different programming languages.
They provide means of accessing resources present at server required for the client via the web browser by means of request headers, request body, response body, status codes, etc.

Every content in the REST architecture is considered a resource.

Uniform Resource Identifier is the full form of URI which is used for identifying each resource of the REST architecture. URI is of the format:

<protocol>://<service-name>/<ResourceType>/<ResourceID>